# TXPrice.com

[toc]


## Overview

> api.txprice.com

An overview of the new typed transaction envelope system

## Implementation Info

Note: transactions seed a `maxPriorityFee` & `maxFee` > 0. Miners may not sort the txn pool directly by `maxPriorityFee` because in cases when `maxFee` - `maxPriorityFee` < `baseFee`, the `maxPriorityFee` will be reduced for the transaction to remain valid. If `maxFee` < `baseFee`, the transaction is invalid.

## 1559 Variables and their functions

| Variable | Definition |
| -------- | -------- |
| `baseFeePerGas`     | Generated by the protocol, recorded in each block header. Represents the minimum `gasUsed` multiplier required for a tx to be included in a block. This is the part of the tx fee that is burnt: `baseFeePerGas * gasUsed`. |
|`maxPriorityFeePerGas`| Users set this. Added to transactions, represent the part of the tx fee that goes to the miner. see â­ below  |
|`maxFeePerGas` | Users set this. Represents the maximum amount that a user is willing to pay for their tx (inclusive of `baseFeePerGas` and `maxPriorityFeePerGas`). The difference between `maxFeePerGas` and `baseFeePerGas + maxPriorityFeePerGas` is "refunded" to the user. |


### Variable Mechanics
- Each block's `baseFeePerGas` can increase/decrease by up to 12.5% depending on how full the block is relative to the previous one: e.g. 100% full -> +12.5%, 50% full -> same, 0% full -> -12.5%.
- When 1559 is activated, the `gasLimit` of blocks will double (e.g. 15m to 30m), so "50% full" blocks post-1559 are equivalent to 100% full blocks pre-1559.
- Note: on the 1559 fork block, the `baseFeePerGas` will be set to 1 gwei. Due to integer math, it cannot go below **7 wei** (0.000000007 gwei).


### â­ `maxPriorityFeePerGas` in-depth

`maxPriorityFeePerGas` serves three purposes:

1. ðŸ”€ Compensates miners for the uncle/ommer risk + fixed costs of including transaction in a block;
2. ðŸ’° Allows users with high opportunity costs to pay a premium to miners;
3. ðŸ“ˆ In times where demand exceeds the available block space (i.e. 100% full, 30mm gas), this component allows first price auctions (i.e. the pre-1559 fee model) to happen on the priority fee.



Here's how to think about suggesting user defaults for `maxPriorityFeePerGas`.

> 1. ðŸ”€ Compensates miners for the uncle/ommer risk  + fixed costs of including transaction in a block;

The rationale behind this is that if the priority fee was 0, miners would simply mine empty blocks. Therefore, in order for it to be in their economic interest to add transactions to blocks, they must be compensated beyond the marginal uncling risk that adding transactions to their block creates (and for the fixed costs of actually running the transactions, but those are negligible compared to uncle risk).

Uncle risk has two main components: the difference in block reward between being a canonical vs. uncle block and the lost MEV in the block.

[This analysis](https://notes.ethereum.org/@barnabe/rk5ue1WF_) calculates the right `maxPriorityFeePerGas` to set (assuming 15m gas) based on how much MEV there is on average in a block (note: `p=0`, the last graph, uses the most accurate numbers). Flashbots has [a dashboard](https://dashboard.flashbots.net/miners) showing the average MEV per block.


## API


Type0 and Type2 Transactions
Type0 transactions (Pre EIP-1559) should utilize the Price number under each confidence level.

Type2 transactions (EIP-1559) should utilize the values for maxPriorityFeePerGas (also known as the "tip") and maxFeePerGas .


### Glossary

**maxPrice**
Highest priced transaction in the mempool

**currentBlockNumber**
Block number at the time of prediction

**msSinceLastBlock**
Milliseconds since the last block was mined relative to when data was computed

**blockNumber**
Block this prediction is for

**baseFeePerGas**
Base fee per gas for current block in gwei. (Only type2 transactions Post EIP-1559 have this value and it's burned by the network upon transaction success).
estimatedTransactionCount
Number of items we estimate will be included in next block based on mempool snapshot

**confidence**
0-99 likelihood the next block will contain a transaction with a gas price >= to the listed price

**Price**
Price in Gwei (used for type0 transactions: Pre EIP-1559)

**maxPriorityFeePerGas**
Max priority fee per gas in gwei also known as the "tip" (used for type2 transactions: EIP-1559)

**maxFeePerGas**
Max fee per gas in gwei (used for type2 transactions: EIP-1559). Our current max fee heuristic is Base Fee * 2 + Priority Fee. This is to protect against a 'rapid' rise in the base fee while your transaction fee is pending. In most cases, the actual transaction fee will approximate Base Fee + Priority Fee.


## Client Implementation Details

London Hardfork implementation details

### Go-Ethereum (Geth)

> Edit: Geth's gas price oracle retrieves the cheapest 3 transactions from the past X blocks, and uses the 60th percentile as the suggestion for the price. The 60th percentile ensures we're aiming for inclusion in 2-3 blocks, whereas looking at the minimums ensures we're trying to push prices downward instead of up.
> [reference]: https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/328#issuecomment-853234014


The Gas Price Oracle ('GPO') tracks the 60th percentile of the minimum tip paid over the last 20 blocks, looking at the 3 transactions with the smallest tip for each block.

`eth_maxPriorityFeePerGas` returns GPO while

`eth_gasPrice` returns GPO + current basefee

The gas price oracle internally calculates the priority fees actually paid by the transactions. For the eth_gasPrice call, we will return the estimated priority fee + 1 basefee (which will essentially be the "current" full gasPrice that we estimate pre-London). For eth_maxPriorityFeePerGas, we return the estimated priority fee. The user needs to set the maxFeePerGas either manually based on the tip, or Geth defaults to the priority fee + 2x baseFee.





Gas price recommendations now modeled as Priority Fees
optional field #1: suggestBaseFee
optional field #2: gasUsedRatio

`suggestBaseFee` may be added to the returned safe/proposed/fast priority fee recommendations to derive a suggested MaxFeePerGas.

`gasUsedRatio` can be used to evaluate how busy the network is, allowing you to adjust your parameters accordingly.



### EIP-1559 JSON RPC Changes

The [eth1.0-apis repository](https://github.com/ethereum/eth1.0-apis) is not versioned (yet!) and hence it can be hard to track the various changes introduced by EIP-1559. Here is a list to make this easier.

### 1559 Summary

EIP-1559 introduces a new transaction type (`0x02`) and adds a field to the block header (`baseFeePerGas`). At a high level, anything which either returns a transaction or a block will be affected post-1559.

### API Changes

The following APIs calls are changed with the introduction of EIP-1559:

* `eth_call`
    * This API has the most substantial behavior modifications. They are described [here](https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum/pull/23027).
* `eth_getBlockBy*` endpoints
    * A new field `baseFeePerGas` is added on post-London blocks
* `eth_getRawTransaction*` endpoints
    * RLP encoded EIP-1559 transactions may be returned post-London
* `eth_getTransactionBy*` endpoints
    * `gasPrice` now interpreted as `maxFeePerGas` before the tx is mined and `effectiveGasPrice` after it's mined (for EIP-1559 txs). This field is deprecated (no EOL set yet) for EIP-1559 transactions.
    * EIP-1559 transactions will have two new fields, `maxPriorityFeePerGas` and `maxFeePerGas`
* `eth_getTransactionReceipt`
    * A new field `effectiveGasPrice` is added to the receipt. Pre-London, it is equal to the transaction's `gasPrice`. Post-London, it is equal to the actual gas price paid for inclusion. This calculation differs depending if the transaction is an EIP-1559 transaction or not.
* `eth_getUncleBy*` endpoints
    * A new field `baseFeePerGas` is added on post-London blocks
* `eth_sendTransaction`
    * EIP-1559 transaction fields `maxPriorityFeePergas` and `maxFeePerGas` are now supported. Clients will calculate reasonable values for these fields if they're omitted. Legacy transactions can still be sent by specifying a `gasPrice`
* `eth_estimateGas`
    * Either `gasPrice` or `maxFeePerGas` and `maxPriorityFeePerGas` are now required. Before, it was okay to omit `gasPrice` because it could be filled with `0`. Now the `baseFeePerGas` must be taken into account, and the fee payment must be large enough to cover the base fee.
* `eth_sendRawTransaction`
    * This method now supports RLP encoded EIP-1559 transactions

Note:`*` at the end of a name refers to all variations of this API call.

Additionally, the following JSON RPC endpoint was introduced:

* `eth_feeHistory`, which returns historical data about transaction fees. More information on it can be found [here](https://github.com/zsfelfoldi/feehistory).
    * Maybe mention that geth will have a breaking change for this endpoint to support hex-encoded values vs. integers? (https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum/pull/23239)

